# lostfromcovid
This website that was built as a final project for a digital art class at Pitzer College in Fall 2020. It can be viewed at [lostfromcovid.life](lostfromcovid.life).

## About
This website is a visual reminder of all the people that have passed away from COVID-19, serving both as a somber reflection of the damage that has been done and as a call to action to do more, especially as the current wave is looking to be the worst one yet. It generates random pairings of names, which are based on a list of the most common names in the United States, and ages, which are calculated from data of which populations are the most vulnerable according to the CDC. The intention of this is to form personal connections with viewers, as it is likely they know people who share names with those that appear on the screen. This emphasizes that this disease affects everyone, and no person can be immune to the personal tragedy associated with it. Additionally, upon loading the page, it calculates the current domestic death count, so every time someone visits the page, they will be able to see how many people have died in the US alone.

## Credits
This app was built and deployed by James Karsten in 2020. Most common names were taken from the US government's [Social Security Agency](https://www.ssa.gov/oact/babynames). Death by age data was taken from the CDC's [Provisional COVID-19 Death Counts by Sex, Age, and Week](https://data.cdc.gov/NCHS/Provisional-COVID-19-Death-Counts-by-Sex-Age-and-W/vsak-wrfu) publicly accessible database and was last updated on November 11, 2020. The most recent data on the total number of deaths is scraped from the CDC's [United States COVID-19 Cases and Deaths by State over Time](https://data.cdc.gov/resource/9mfq-cb36.json) publicly accessible database each time the page is loaded.
